This is a large text file that has more than one line and also will not fit
inside a single packet. I will keep typing but at some point I will paste in
some larger text. Okay, now:

The 60-39 vote to prevent a Republican filibuster against the start of debate on
Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid's legislation broke down along strict party
lines. All 58 Senate Democrats -- along with independent Sens. Joe Lieberman of
Connecticut and Bernie Sanders of Vermont -- supported bringing the measure to
the floor.

Thirty-nine of the 40 Senate Republicans opposed the motion. Sen. George
Voinovich, R-Ohio, didn't vote.

"Tonight's historic vote brings us one step closer to ending insurance company
abuses, reining in spiraling health care costs, providing stability and security
to those with health insurance and extending quality health coverage to those
who lack it," White House Press Secretary Robert Gibbs said in a statement.

The polarized vote set the table for a holiday season now virtually certain to
be marked by acrimonious deliberations on President Obama's top domestic
priority.

Top Senate Democrats, who are trying to pass a bill before the end of the year,
spent much of the day tarring their Republican colleagues as defenders of a
broken status quo benefitting rich insurance companies at the expense of
ordinary American families.

Republicans, in turn, slammed Democrats for pushing a bill that conservatives
insist will force millions of Americans to drop insurance plans they like while
boosting premiums, raising taxes and leading to government rationing of care.

"Today we [decide] whether to even discuss one of the greatest issues of our
generation," Reid, a Nevada Democrat, said shortly before the vote. "Whether
this nation will finally guarantee its people the right to live free from fear
of illness and death, which can be prevented by decent health care for all."

The Republicans "are frightening people," said Sen. Tom Harkin, D-Iowa. "Now is
not the time to go wobbly in the knees. Now is the time to stand strong ... and
move this country forward."

"This bill... is a massive monument to bureaucracy and spending," replied
Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Kentucky. It "imposes punishing taxes
on almost everyone. ... A vote in favor of proceeding to this bill is a vote in
favor of adding to the tax burden of the American people in the midst of double
digit unemployment."
Video: Speaking against health bill
Video: Democrats rally toward debate
Video: 'This is a defining moment'
Video: Real cost of reform?

The bill "does worse than nothing," said Sen. Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa. It
"threatens the economic recovery. ... Changes to the health care system must be
responsible and not break the backs of the taxpayers."

The procedural vote represented another milestone in what has become an epic
battle over the future of America's health care system.

The House of Representatives narrowly passed a more than $1 trillion bill this
month. If the Senate also manages to pass a bill, a congressional conference
committee will then need to merge the House and Senate proposals into a
consensus version requiring final approval from each chamber before moving to
Obama's desk to be signed into law.

The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office has projected that Reid's
2,074-page bill would extend health insurance coverage to 31 million additional
Americans.

The agency estimates that the proposal would reduce the federal deficit by $130
billion over the next 10 years, through 2019. Any effect on the deficit in the
following decade would be "subject to substantial uncertainty," but probably
would result in "small reductions in federal budget deficits," according to
budget office analysts.

A minimum of 60 votes is required to break a filibuster in the 100-member
Senate. The outcome of the Senate vote was unclear before Saturday afternoon,
when Sen. Blanche Lincoln, D-Arkansas, announced her intention to back a floor
debate on the measure.

Lincoln, a key moderate probably facing a tough re-election campaign in 2010,
said the issue deserved further debate and consideration. She made clear,
however, that she opposes several aspects of Reid's bill, including a
controversial government-run public option.

"Although I don't agree with everything in this bill, I believe it is important
to begin debate," Lincoln said.

"The issue is very complex. There is no easy fix."

Republicans wasted no time tearing into Lincoln's vote, issuing a news release
while she was still announcing her decision, proclaiming that she had caved to
"pressure from the left wing of her party."

"There's no doubt that this vote will be a critical issue for Sen. Lincoln as
she embarks on her uphill re-election bid," said Amber Wilkerson Marchand, a
GOP spokeswoman. "The people of Arkansas will have an opportunity to hold her
accountable when they cast their ballots next November."

Two other Democratic moderates whose support was considered to be in doubt --
Nebraska's Ben Nelson and Louisiana's Mary Landrieu -- also announced their
decision to back a full debate shortly before the vote.

Reid's bill, projected to ensure coverage for 94 percent of Americans, includes
a range of tax increases and new fees.

The Medicare payroll tax on individuals earning $200,000 a year and couples
earning $250,000 a year would increase by half a percentage point, from the
current 1.45 percent to 1.95 percent. In addition, insurers providing costly
health coverage -- known as Cadillac plans -- would face a 40 percent tax on
policies worth more than $8,500 for individuals and $23,000 for families.
